Blazor hosting models topic updates (#25948)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hosting-models.md

## Blazor Server

> With the Blazor Server hosting model, the app is executed on the server from within an ASP.NET Core app. UI updates, event handling, and JavaScript calls are handled over a [SignalR](xref:signalr/introduction) connection using the [WebSockets protocol](xref:fundamentals/websockets). The state on the server associated with each connected client is called a *circuit*. Circuits aren't tied to a specific network connection and can tolerate temporary network interruptions and attempts by the client to reconnect to the server when the connection is lost.

Reviewer: Looks fine 👍

When the Blazor WebAssembly app is created for deployment without a backend ASP.NET Core app to serve its files, the app is called a *standalone* Blazor WebAssembly app. When the app is created for deployment with a backend app to serve its files, the app is called a *hosted* Blazor WebAssembly app.

> A Blazor WebAssembly app built as a [Progressive Web Application (PWA)](xref:blazor/progressive-web-app) uses modern browser APIs and capabilities to behave like a desktop app, providing features such as working offline, running in its own app window, launching from the host's operating system, receiving push notifications, and automatically updating in the background.

Reviewer: PWAs work on mobile too.

```suggestion
A Blazor WebAssembly app built as a [Progressive Web Application (PWA)](xref:blazor/progressive-web-app) uses modern browser APIs to enable many of the capabilities of a native client app, such as working offline, running in its own app window, launching from the host's operating system, receiving push notifications, and automatically updating in the background.
```

## Which Blazor hosting model should I choose?

Select the Blazor hosting model based on the app's feature requirements. The following table shows the primary considerations for selecting the hosting model. 

> Technically, a Blazor Progressive Web Application (PWA) is a form of Blazor WebAssembly and not a separate hosting model. However, Blazor PWA offers a unique combination of features, so PWA appears in the following table in its own column.

Reviewer: I'm not in favor of adding PWA to this table. This table is for comparing Blazor hosting models, and a PWA is not a Blazor hosting model.

Blazor Hybrid apps include .NET MAUI, WPF, and Windows Forms framework apps.

| Feature | Blazor Server | Blazor WebAssembly (WASM) | Blazor PWA | Blazor Hybrid |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [Complete .NET API compatibility](#complete-net-api-compatibility) | ✔️ | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ |
| [Direct access to server and network resources](#direct-access-to-server-and-network-resources) | ✔️ | ❌&dagger; | ❌&dagger; | ❌&dagger; |
| [Small payload size with fast initial load time](#small-payload-size-with-fast-initial-load-time) | ✔️ | ❌ | ❌&Dagger; | ❌ |

> | [Relatively larger payload size with faster execution speed](#relatively-larger-payload-size-with-faster-execution-speed) | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️&Dagger; | ✔️ |

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this row is mixing payload size and execution speed. We could just add a row for "Near native execution speed". All three hosting models would get a ✔️ , but Blazor WebAssembly would need a footnote saying that you only get near native performance with AOT compilation.

| [App code secure and private on the server](#app-code-secure-and-private-on-the-server) | ✔️ | ❌&dagger; | ❌&dagger; | ❌&dagger; |
| [Run apps offline once downloaded](#run-apps-offline-once-downloaded) | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| [Static site hosting](#static-site-hosting) | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ❌ |
| [Offloads processing to clients](#offloads-processing-to-clients) | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| [Full access to native client capabilities](#full-access-to-native-client-capabilities) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ |
| [Executes in its own app window](#executes-in-its-own-app-window) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| [Launch from the client](#launch-from-the-client) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| [Receive push notifications](#receive-push-notifications) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |

> | [Automatic background updates](#automatic-background-updates) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |

Reviewer: I don't think these four add much to the table. You could technically say that all four of these apply to all hosting models. You can add a web manifest to a Blazor Server app so that it behaves like a PWA. We don't provide a template for that, but you can do it. The only bit you can't do with Blazor Server is work offline. Web apps can receive push notifications. You can auto update any of these apps (with Blazor Server, you just deploy a server update). I think we should remove these rows.

> | [Provided to clients via an installer](#provided-to-clients-via-an-installer) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ |

Reviewer: Let's flip this one around. The web deployment model is generally considered a strength over native clients.

```suggestion
| [Web-based deployment](#web-based-deployment) | ✔️ | ✔️ | ❌ |
```

### Executes in its own app window

Blazor PWA and Blazor Hybrid apps can run in their own app window on the client, so they aren't limited to a browser window.

### Launch from the client

Blazor PWA and Blazor Hybrid apps can be launched from the client's operating system start menu, dock, or home screen.

### Receive push notifications

Blazor PWA and Blazor Hybrid apps are able to receive push notifications, even while the user isn't using the app.

### Automatic background updates

Blazor PWA and Blazor Hybrid apps permit automatic background updates:

* PWAs are updated automatically when the site is updated. Updates via stores aren't possible, and there's no validation or verification process for updates.
* Blazor Hybrid apps are deployed and updated as any other native app for a given platform, following the appropriate procedures for a given platform.

> ### Provided to clients via an installer
> 
> Blazor Hybrid apps are the only type of Blazor app that use an installer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Web based deployment

Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssemby are deployed as web apps that get updated on the next app refresh. Blazor Hybrid apps are native client apps that typically require an installer and platform specific deployment mechanism.
```
